Chloe Lannert: Where they were each worth tens and tens of millions of dollars that day. Right? So pretty great outcome. What you often find is that people along the way really, really mix up about solution, the capital that they're taking on what they're actually gonna do with it. So just keep that in mind as we go through this.
Chloe Lannert: How many of you are solo practice
Chloe Lannert: lonely? Well, that's never actually happened. However, not the norm these days. You are becoming a far more common phenotype in our startup ecosystem. 35% of the founders that joined Carter last year were solo founders. However, this has always been true will probably forever be true. Vcs hate them.
Chloe Lannert: It's not my supposition. This isn't an opinion. This is a fact. Vc. Funds solo founders far less than other companies.
Chloe Lannert: Why do these things get signed to the server?
Chloe Lannert: For no reason? Right? It's great. I completely agree. So why are they wrong here?
Chloe Lannert: Okay, you're out bigger risk.
Chloe Lannert: We go risk this. It will say, book, you leave. What do I do? So investment gone.
Chloe Lannert: Other reasons why they have to freeze out of 400.
Chloe Lannert: This thing is right. One's a business person. One's a tech person. That was the old dynamic to say, I change that they don't talk about, but I think it's actually even more true. Sometimes
Chloe Lannert: they want to know if you're an asshole.
Chloe Lannert: and they figure if you're solo found, and you haven't had to convince anyone else to join you on that journey. That's a little bit more difficult than at least you convince one other person.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, so if you don't, you do have a Co founder. Do you want running this alone? How do you split up your
Chloe Lannert: 2 founder teams that split 50 50. That's that top line. So last year 45% of 2 founder teams split right down there.
Chloe Lannert: That means, obviously, that the majority of teams do not do that.
Chloe Lannert: and if you have 3 or 4, or even 5 calendars, most, none of them.
Chloe Lannert: So splitting unequally is the majority of cases.
Chloe Lannert: no matter what? Why see property in history?
Chloe Lannert: There's a lot of good reasons to split unequally. There's a lot of bad reasons to split unequally. There's no morally right position. Anyone who's too strong on this is just lying to you. 50 50 is totally fine. That's awesome. As long as you have a conversation about it
Chloe Lannert: unequal, totally fine again, as long as you had a sit down. Conversation about it. I cannot tell you the number of times I have run into founders who said I found a breakup 6 months into the business. I realized that my Co. Founder was full of simmering resentment because he or she only owned 40% of the business.
Chloe Lannert: That was a lot right. And so whatever you do, talk about it with your partner. This is co-founder.
Chloe Lannert: You go 50, 51 49 is the most common, so obviously, very, very close. But just the decision making structure clear. If you have 3, 4, or 5 counters, there's typically someone who takes an outsized portion of that, a bigger seat.
Chloe Lannert: And that person is almost always nice list.
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: back to that profounder idea, what is one of, in my view, the easiest ways to kill your startups is to do all this without investment.
Chloe Lannert: You all have to settle on your own equity.
Chloe Lannert: That's not a lot of nods.
Chloe Lannert: Disappointed. Okay? Good. Why? Because it won't happen to you. I'm sure you're all in beautiful and happy marriages with your co-founders, but one out of 4 of you will lose a co-founder in the 1st 4 years. That only counts the companies that made it to year 4, a lot of companies that died because of that, Co. Founders thought.
Chloe Lannert: Probably a 3rd of conference will use a couple in the session of this.
Chloe Lannert: That's what the vesting schedule does. It is obviously protection. Schedules is mostly protection for you. So if a Co. Founder leaves, they don't walk out the door to 50% of your business. And that's it. You cannot raise Vc funding. If 50% of your business is no longer working for the business.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, how to minimize that question for?
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, yeah, I over the years, the percentage of the founders that dropped out goes, is there any reason why it's that incorporate like in this range.
Chloe Lannert: What do you think? Why, those percentages may be higher? No, I mean, like.
Chloe Lannert: yeah, those those are going up. But like.
Chloe Lannert: instead of single digit percentages. I don't. I think that's mostly just noise. But there is something that happened here which is like tons of companies got funded, and then every over a lot of those Co founder relationships didn't make it past that.
Chloe Lannert: No Vc funding kills a lot of businesses. Not necessarily because you didn't have capital because it constitutes a lot of them.
Chloe Lannert: Okay?
Chloe Lannert: Question end of 4 year. There's an arrow end of 4 year. Traditional invest
Chloe Lannert: for founders. The standard today is 40 years with no cliff. You start investing immediately.
Chloe Lannert: However, you will hear Vc's try to push you towards 5, 6, even 8 year investment
Chloe Lannert: upfront. How does that make you feel but
Chloe Lannert: right requests on their part. However, in logical sense, it doesn't. It doesn't make some sense. Given that you are probably not with the 1st 10 years, saving a dozen, 1314 years to ideal. So they do care whether you're long term incentivized.
Chloe Lannert: Don't give them that up front in my view stick with the 4 year you start having conversations. They might some of that equity. You can use that as a chip. Right? You can play that into evaluation. You can play that into cash. It is. It's just another term to negotiate. You don't need to just give it to them.
Chloe Lannert: So that's founders. You're gonna do the vesting schedule. You're gonna give yourself restricted stock awards mostly.
Chloe Lannert: and you could get refreshed down the line. You do see? Founder refresh grants. You know, when you raise a big series, a or something, but you could also get asked to reinvest some of your equity.
Chloe Lannert: So more equity, less equity, kind of depends on how independent you are over time. Yeah. So there's a ton of different. We talk about ownership or equity like it's 1 thing, but there's 10 really different kinds of equity. The most common for founders is this one Rsa restricted soft awards
Chloe Lannert: really great for you for 2 reasons, one. When you accept that, grace. You own the ships you own them on that day there's no exercising. There's no money right, and the reason that's good for you is because on the day that you grant yourself that equity, what is your company?
Chloe Lannert: Zeros? Right? So what does that mean?
Chloe Lannert: Big like point? Oh, oh, one cents, which means you're not gonna pay really any taxes on it. But you already own the shares.
Chloe Lannert: So very favorable equity type for partners.
Chloe Lannert: You don't generally see that for early employees or later employees, because the equity is actually worth a lot of money, and the strike price is higher. So they have to pay taxes on that immediately, and they're not sure
Chloe Lannert: reverse testing. Oh, yeah, revesting reverse testing. This is the Vc going. I realize you invested all your equity. Let's put some of that back on a new resting side.
Chloe Lannert: because they again wouldn't be long service
Chloe Lannert: trade. That don't give them that for free right as a as traders. Yeah. But to do that, they have to 1st buy your
Chloe Lannert: or like, what is that like? Are they diluting everyone to do that? Or they? Yeah, no, it's as simple as you own. 50% of the company outline is fully invested. Right? So they're saying is, put that on new.
Chloe Lannert: Oh, straight up like chance cancel the previous thing. 100%. Oh, wow! Yep. Now, you won't revest your full equity state right? They'll be like, Hey, take 10% of that 50 that you own and revest it again, because from the day the Vc. Invests that's their starting they don't really care.
Chloe Lannert: They want you long term incentivize you to take advantage.
Chloe Lannert: So many of them will start asking you if you are too vested to do this.
Chloe Lannert: You don't have to say yes, right? You're gonna say, screw you. I'll take a different term sheet. It's your only term sheet.
Chloe Lannert: hey? I will give us 5% of my equity. But I'm gonna change almost like a higher valuation, or more cash, or deal with the board seat, or whatever it is.
Chloe Lannert: Good lawyer for me.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, what are common, or, I want to say, acceptable, but, like reasonable asks, and what are red flags in terms of revesting
Chloe Lannert: revesting more than 50% of your position is a completely unreasonable ask, in my view.
Chloe Lannert: But hey! These seasons, when you get in the middle of those spreadsheet negotiations, you'll you'll be surprised what people ask for.
Chloe Lannert: and again it all comes back out of leverage.
Chloe Lannert: You won't hear silly requests. If you have 3 terms.
Chloe Lannert: if you have one churchy. You may hear some so many requests.
Chloe Lannert: and of course it comes into the
Chloe Lannert: prestige, or whatever of the fund, although we hear sometimes the Mega funds drive way harder bargains than the smaller funds.
Chloe Lannert: It's kind of all.
Chloe Lannert: But I mean, this is maybe a good point to
Chloe Lannert: roof. Just kind of reinforce. I'm sure you all know this, but venture is incredibly and always will be, and will never change from being unfair
Chloe Lannert: is not. I could give every single one of you the same arr, same product, and send you out the same road, and every single one of you come back with a different valuation.
Chloe Lannert: Right? It is not
Chloe Lannert: so your leverage as a founder, your leverage as the company creator versus their leverage. As the investor is always a personal leverage, it's not like cool. I get a million dollars in. Now I get these service. It's not how it works.
Chloe Lannert: advisors. How many of you have advisors here, but not oh.
Chloe Lannert: tell me if I'm wrong here, but whenever I talk to advisors.
Chloe Lannert: for some reason, they always start the conversation by saying.
Chloe Lannert: I don't know. Generally we take about 1%.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, that's super freaking high. I don't know what they all got together in a conference one day. And they're like, let's ask for 1%, and then we'll get negotiated down. But no point 2 5% is the median amount of equity advisors.
Chloe Lannert: And then oftentimes we'll go. Peter. Yeah, your data is whatever I don't care. But you get what you pay for.
Chloe Lannert: Also, I think the main takeaway from this is not.
Chloe Lannert: It's terrible to give advisors a lot of equity. It is. Why do you need that?
Chloe Lannert: I'll say this now, too many companies use 2 and a license.
Chloe Lannert: If you're building a very scientifically difficult product. And you're working with a technical advisor at a university cool
Chloe Lannert: you're building. If your advisors, introducing you to actual customers and closing deals with you. I totally do it.
Chloe Lannert: If your advisor is telling me things that you could read online, don't give them that.
Chloe Lannert: Don't hear the net. Does it like? How valuable is this person?
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: that, taking into account that the companies that have no advisors or no, just the ones that grants advisor. And what's the percentage that does get an advisor sometime?
Chloe Lannert: So, but that leaves obviously another half of it.
Chloe Lannert: and the median number of advisors for the ones that have them is us.
Chloe Lannert: Oh, 2 of them!
Chloe Lannert: Which again, I just think it's like, I think, that most of the time when we talk to founders of series A or series B, they look back and they go. That person.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, do your advisors get a testing schedule as well well done?
Chloe Lannert: Yes, they do 2 years typically with a very short cliff or no cliff, or if you want, you can give them a performance criteria, investing schedule, which says, you get equity when you do this thing
Chloe Lannert: so very specific. If you do that be very specific on what that thing is. You don't want to go back and forth on an email where the advisor goes. No, no, you are compensating me on insurance, not closed candidates, right?
Chloe Lannert: And you're like, no, I didn't. I didn't hire the person. There's a lot of weird emails.
Chloe Lannert: So if you do require this criteria, be very specific about the technical service.
Chloe Lannert: nobody get. If you're an advisor. You don't typically get equity refreshed and they get non qualified stock options, which are
Chloe Lannert: okay. Okay? Sorry. Go ahead.
Chloe Lannert: Not almost here.
Chloe Lannert: 10 employees. So
Chloe Lannert: you're probably, although maybe not. If you're following the same open path gonna hire some employees eventually.
Chloe Lannert: And you're gonna set aside a portion of equity for those people
Chloe Lannert: some Vcs that you'll talk to will be like your option pool. Your employees have option. Pool should start at 20%
Chloe Lannert: that is too high.
Chloe Lannert: Must start at 8, and then every time you fundraise, you can negotiate with Vcs about expanding that
Chloe Lannert: right, because if you start at 20 congrats, you just diluting yourself and not paying for no reason.
Chloe Lannert: And if the Vc. Goes well, you're probably gonna spend 20% hiring people between your seat and your a round, then they have no idea.
Chloe Lannert: none of them.
Chloe Lannert: So 8 to 10 is a great place to start
Chloe Lannert: brings us to. What do you pay your initial team.
Chloe Lannert: So this is higher number by first, st non founder, second non founder, etcetera.
Chloe Lannert: 1.5% as a median for the 1st
Chloe Lannert: recorded is that too high to you or low to you.
Chloe Lannert: Alright, yeah, you wouldn't join 4,
Chloe Lannert: maybe I don't know. We are found. So
Chloe Lannert: first, st the band on that is super wide could be half a percent could be 4 or 5. We see even 6%. Sometimes on the 1st hire. That person. You're all gonna hire
Chloe Lannert: at different rates. Right? It's not really a market. You're probably gonna know this person pretty well. Maybe you worked with them before, like, it's an art, not science. These are just guidance.
Chloe Lannert: However, it soon becomes not just art, it soon becomes pretty scientific, and say, Look, this is the market for this kind of position. That's what we pay.
Chloe Lannert: So to me.
Chloe Lannert: the hard one of the hardest things you're going to do as founders, aside from the many other hard things that you'll do is convincing teammates number 5 through 20 to learn.
Chloe Lannert: because they're taking a ton of risk for very little.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah versus over, how do you guys do the business after 4 h.
Chloe Lannert: It's basically the same numbers here, too.
Chloe Lannert: less short equipment effectively the same. And they're getting
Chloe Lannert: 1 100th of the value of the company that you are, etc. So convincing those early early people to join is.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, I'm curious about that.
Chloe Lannert: 1st we hired the range, but a lot of like cash salary? Or is it just like a negotiable thing? Or it's like A,
Chloe Lannert: mostly because convincing that 1st hire to join you. Okay? Right. This is probably a good thing
Chloe Lannert: to your point, though the trade off between salary and equity here. Do you think that is happening more in the 1st 5 hires who, yes, tend to be engineers. And yes, they're coming from a bigger place, and they're already kind of cool on salary. They might be like, yeah, maybe like a marginal amount. But I want to boost that equity package because I'm in it for longer.
Chloe Lannert: that maybe someone you want to target right? That's great. Yeah. What when it comes to like hire one. What our 1st hire is that is this based off of companies that have already raised typically, no.
Chloe Lannert: specifically, was kind of a mix some of them may have raised a safe on safes and Angel round, or some capital. Some of them may have come out of accelerators, and others of them have never raised no money.
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: that means that there are these, 1.5 between point 5 and 4%. Are they getting to sell it? Yes, they're getting.
Chloe Lannert: you know.
Chloe Lannert: There's not that many people who are trying to look for a new site.
Chloe Lannert: I mean, I'm sure there are some right who are like I love you. I love your product
Chloe Lannert: so investing same as usual for your best. For the one year clip. We do see some companies like Stripe and other people experimenting with different kinds of investment schedules for employees don't do that. You're not strike
Chloe Lannert: equity. Almost everybody gets incentive stuff happens as employees.
Chloe Lannert: Then you switch to Rs use way down like seriously, don't even think
Chloe Lannert: sometimes you give the earliest people like your 1st 5 employees. Rsas, like you got. That's pretty generous.
Chloe Lannert: It's another point.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, I don't understand why one year is not in 2014, because then you don't get the advantage. Your recess.
Chloe Lannert: So the fair market value of the stock. If I have a fair market value of a dollar on my stock. 4 years from now that fair market value has risen a lot right?
Chloe Lannert: Whereas if I get reset every year, I'm not actually getting as much of a growth in that. The the gap between the fair market value issuance and the actual value of stock isn't nearly as big.
Chloe Lannert: Okay? I thought the lesson schedule was when you actually get to
Chloe Lannert: have the possibility to buy it. It is so.
Chloe Lannert: maybe because if you have a that same schedule of a 1 year less. That means every single year you're getting a new credit
Chloe Lannert: right? It's not like for one year, and then compressed 4 years, 25% one year, and then you're right. That is the best, indicates the timeline onto which you have the option to
Chloe Lannert: was a very important part. But it's not
Chloe Lannert: refresh. You'll probably give these people more equity. If they stick around right after 4 years they'll give them more equity because their 1st 4 year grant right now, that kind of stuff
Chloe Lannert: they get promoted, you might give them smartly, etc. You you probably won't get started.
Chloe Lannert: What are the modes for this? The refreshes? Yes.
Chloe Lannert: depends typically on a 10 year, Grant, we see the refresh being something like 60% of the initial
Chloe Lannert: but it depends, especially if those are your first.st Like 4 or 5 employees, they probably already have a lot of equity, so maybe not promotion and merit. It's much more like we can move you from a level 5 to a level 6 in linear. And therefore the equity is bumped up.
Chloe Lannert: Those are problems, for when you're going to be done, few of them already.
Chloe Lannert: Alright, proceed
Chloe Lannert: the biggest question across Silicon Valley these days.
Chloe Lannert: You need raising, or do you not need any outside of it?
Chloe Lannert: Everyone loves reading tech crunch headlines about cursor.
Chloe Lannert: And then all these AI startups that have taken no money and are moving in our the next
Chloe Lannert: that is definitely happening. It's being written about more than it's actually happening right? I'm sure some of you are probably in that one already.
Chloe Lannert: because Vc. Is really expensive is the most expensive capital you will ever take. If you're holding.
Chloe Lannert: you get a loan from a bank, pay the bank back. You don't have to talk to the bank or every quarter for the rest of the year.
Chloe Lannert: Vcs are with like a beautiful laps, so
Chloe Lannert: different pathways for funding in this sort of ecosystem. Obviously you can bootstrap your cash plus revenue.
Chloe Lannert: You can go full. Vc. Where you go. Pre all that will be.
Chloe Lannert: You can see, chat. Everyone's new favorite model, which is, I'm gonna raise 100. This profitability, not raise again.
Chloe Lannert: Not like it.
Chloe Lannert: Lots of people trying that you have to be seeing how that really works out, and then you can do late. Vc, so it's exactly like bootstrapping. But then I don't know. 4 or 5 years down the road. You realize, you know what? We have a great business, but if I had an extra 20 million dollars I could really supercharge this, and you're an amazing position to negotiate.
Chloe Lannert: You don't need to tackle. This is just for right.
Chloe Lannert: All of these are good.
Chloe Lannert: I think one of the annoying things about this moment is
Chloe Lannert: we keep telling entrepreneurs like. There's a lot of people in the ecosystem and say, if you don't do X, you are in.
Chloe Lannert: It's like that's not true. Right. Lots of different people have different levels of ambition for their business and different capital, all these different levels of ambition.
Chloe Lannert: So the big question that comes out of this is, how much money do you need?
Chloe Lannert: It's not an easy question to answer, but it is a developed question.
Chloe Lannert: because if you know that you really know that the rest of this stuff becomes live.
Chloe Lannert: But let's say you are gonna raise money from angels or from Vcs. You're all familiar with the safe.
Chloe Lannert: So states are the dominant vehicle for fundraising. 90% of the dollars received flow from States not converting notes.
Chloe Lannert: If you're building a biotech or robotics.
Chloe Lannert: maybe you'll run across some convertible notes. But most of this month
Chloe Lannert: safe obviously have 2 terms. Valuation app. There's a ceiling of the safe. Discount is the floor of the safe. And then there's greeting post money. So
Chloe Lannert: of those terms, you're definitely gonna negotiate on your evaluation cap. It's like 90% of states.
Chloe Lannert: Some of them have a discount
Chloe Lannert: and then uncapped, undiscounted. Those are probably best friends in your parents.
Chloe Lannert: Everybody is using the post money, save which is the gray bars, gray black bars there.
Chloe Lannert: Can does anyone know what happened in say, like q, 1 of 2020, actually, q, 4, 2018,
Chloe Lannert: something happened that made this graph look like this?
Chloe Lannert: Do I see it on the right button?
Chloe Lannert: Exactly. Yc, literally just took the Pdf. And the figure, he said, it pops
Chloe Lannert: you still find it literally just a Google away. But everyone just like, Oh, it's not on the white common database, so we won't use it.
Chloe Lannert: Yes, a lot of financial engineering. Why do they do that?
Chloe Lannert: Suppose money saves are better for investors?
Chloe Lannert: They're clearer, revenue better than the customers
Chloe Lannert: often is spoken about like they're better for everyone. They're not.
Chloe Lannert: And here's why
Chloe Lannert: a million bucks into a 10 million cap safe if it's pre money. I, the investor. I have no idea how much of your company? I
Chloe Lannert: because you could just keep wondering, not tell me. I don't know.
Chloe Lannert: Post money.
Chloe Lannert: I own 10%.
Chloe Lannert: The math is just much more right. It's a little less than 10%, because you have the option for more money. But in general post money saves give the investor a much better idea of how much of your company.
Chloe Lannert: which is good, because then you can know how much you've given away when you sold it.
Chloe Lannert: But it's that because it's at the dimension has uploaded.
Chloe Lannert: So again, if I give you 500 K and 5 million cap
Chloe Lannert: that day, I get literally nothing, and you get $500,000 saves wrong power. Second.
Chloe Lannert: then, in the future you fundraise on these terms for your 1st price round, and then on that day. I own shares, I have a percentage.
Chloe Lannert: It could be 12 months could be 24 months. Whenever that qualifies
Chloe Lannert: side note, if you raise on a safe and then never raise the price around.
Chloe Lannert: There's no real mechanism on the standard document to convert that into equity ever, unless you want to be nice
Chloe Lannert: encode is integrated from a PC,
Chloe Lannert: yeah, this might be a dumb question. But what makes something qualified? Which is the 4, 1, 8.
Chloe Lannert: There's some legal definitions around what a qualified financing is, typically what it means is you have a price per share.
Chloe Lannert: So it has to be a price. Evaluation, which means other States are not qualified. Right? So say, don't convert. If you raise more states, they're all waiting to be converted, and whatever the qualified.
Chloe Lannert: the poster shares the main estimate.
Chloe Lannert: and that it's an equity like instrument and not a bad instrument.
Chloe Lannert: I'm sorry just a like option, like so founders still get a price per share when they get their option. Right? Yeah, that is not totally different, totally different. It's actually a great question. So there's a preferred price per share, which is you and your investors figure out. Here's the price per share for the investors.
Chloe Lannert: And then there is the 490 valuation price. Those 2 are very different, and they should be very different. And investors, good investors, all good investors understand that they're different. And they're not going to give you right? So just because your Fmv on your shares is like one cent doesn't mean they're going to be like, well, the Fmv is one cent. So we're going to lower your valuation. They're totally one is about taxes. One is about optimism in the future.
Chloe Lannert: So the same. Yeah. So theoretically, if use only.
Chloe Lannert: and you then do all those things. Converge the Ipo price. Yes, they would, if you. I don't think any company's ever done that. But you could be the first, st I think an Ipo would count as a
Chloe Lannert: that would be super sick. That's like extra dozen.
Chloe Lannert: Okay. It used to be that the safe was a simple one. Page document.
Chloe Lannert: Today it's the same thing, one or 2 pages. But then oftentimes Vc. Fund will add on a new document called side button.
Chloe Lannert: That is simply they are asking you the more side
Chloe Lannert: you don't have to accept it, although most Vc. Funds will have a side whether it exists.
Chloe Lannert: So the stuff they usually ask one most favorite issue.
Chloe Lannert: which means, if you give anybody a better deal than this deal, I get better.
Chloe Lannert: Okay, debatable reasonable issue information rights completely reasonable. In my view. That just means you have to tell us what you're doing. Everything else
Chloe Lannert: pretty good.
Chloe Lannert: Pro rata is the new one.
Chloe Lannert: Right? So this means that I, the investor, can continue investing into your business to maintain my ownership percentage if you raise more capital.
Chloe Lannert: So at your seeground. I make the choice to keep investing into you, buying 10% to keep that 10% at 10%.
Chloe Lannert: Don't give this to everyone.
Chloe Lannert: This is for leads of your round, maybe, and sometimes not all of them.
Chloe Lannert: Right? So you'll talk to lawyers about who gets pro rata, who doesn't. But if you gave everyone pro rata. Then your next round is going to get more complicated and involve all the hurt feelings and all this stuff, because it's not going to be possible for everyone to take their pro rata with a new investor.
Chloe Lannert: Does that make sense?
Chloe Lannert: Don't give that to everybody, but people will ask so
Chloe Lannert: and have a lawyer be the side.
Chloe Lannert: So the big question, what should you set your valuation cap at right now in the States? If you're raising a million bucks. Media valuation cap is just about 10 million. So 1 million raised 10 million cap means you sold.
Chloe Lannert: We both thank you. 10% of the business. Yes.
Chloe Lannert: and that's how you should think about it. By the way, valuation caps, I've seen a lot of early stage founders get very, very precious about the valuation caps. 2 things. One valuation cap is not a valuation.
Chloe Lannert: 2, even if it was, it doesn't mean your business is worth 10 million dollars.
Chloe Lannert: It isn't
Chloe Lannert: your business. The 10 million dollars is the outcome of a math equation, saying the investor needs to own this percentage of the company to make the upside debt worth their money.
Chloe Lannert: It has really nothing to do with what we're worth today.
Chloe Lannert: right? So you can try to emotionally distance yourself from that number, because that would be helpful.
Chloe Lannert: So I think about it. When I talk to founders is just a function of dilution. So is 10% of your business worth a million bucks
Chloe Lannert: could be. What are you gonna use that 1 million dollars for? What are you gonna build with it? What's the line of sight to the next round. If that's what you want to do, all that.
Chloe Lannert: I will say that if you raise a C round a price C round the Median dilution is between like 19 and 20%. And if you do the same amount on a safe, it's basically the same. So the market is pretty rational. If you're raising about 3 million dollars on a safe, you're gonna probably have yourself about as much as you would on the customer. It's not like you're getting a totally better if you do that.
Chloe Lannert: Most
Chloe Lannert: sorry. The colors are a little in the one to 2.4, as of now those are both considered I would consider those sea grounds. Yes. Now this points to the fact that see grounds could be
Chloe Lannert: awesome, right? We see price for a million bucks. And we see pricing.
Chloe Lannert: So the terms are very flexible and saves everyone is using them today.
Chloe Lannert: So you'll probably get different reactions. So I I guess this is more of this stuff from a fundraising perspective. Yeah, curious, like, you know, generally
Chloe Lannert: we do. The math founders do the math we're like, Hey, we want to raise. We need this much money, if not, what we need. Yep.
Chloe Lannert: Is there any point to trying to place that in one of these things? Just like, if there's like area budget, right? Cause? Or is it is it useful? Yeah, to an investor to be like, oh, they're gonna be appreciated. They're going to be.
Chloe Lannert: I don't sure. I'm not sure, but it seems based on this that it does not matter.
Chloe Lannert: Yes, although you could also say, I will raise the lowest possible round I can by the name, just so that if the investors heads they're like, Wow! You make so much progress
Chloe Lannert: outside, even though the fees for 3 million bucks like that's people do this right. The names of the names like whatever. But the idea that so investors will have some conception in their heads of what is, pre see traction, and what is seed round traction. Yeah. But if you raise.
Chloe Lannert: see money, a pre see round.
Chloe Lannert: does that set you up to like. Be very impressive with your C round traction. Maybe right.
Chloe Lannert: I've seen founders who say I would rather raise something called a precede.
Chloe Lannert: and something called based on that. Where, where would that kind of subway be? The line would probably be around 200 bucks
Chloe Lannert: would be almost all investors in the valley would consider us a raise of 2 million to be seen. Let's see, this
Chloe Lannert: to a year old is most of the lines.
Chloe Lannert: But again. You can call it whatever you want to call it right. And because it's on safe, you literally can do whatever you want, because it's just random sign like you don't raise in a round. You have one set of documents that everyone signs, etc, in a safe. It's just oh, 50 K. Check on this account. Keep raising.
Chloe Lannert: That's honestly why found easy or feels like oh, I just need a little bit more cash. Let me go out and raise another 50 or 100 k. On, save then I'll do that again, and I'll do that again. Then you're spending half your time thinking about that half your time building your company, and you want one of those States to convert it.
Chloe Lannert: Some founders are very good at fundraising and building at the same time, and some founders are terrible at fundraising and building at the same time.
Chloe Lannert: You should know which one.
Chloe Lannert: so you cannot do both things at once, and set aside time and spend every waking moment on fundraising and then build some of you can multitask really long.
Chloe Lannert: I can understand.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, that's what he's my co-found. The reason he's asking is, we're trying to figure out if it makes a difference to investors in what we know the amount of fundraise. Yeah, does it make it a difference to investors how we position by the name. If we come in that, let's say 2 and a half, and we call it a seed that looks small as a seed round. Given the currency rounds that are happening. Does that position us poorly, optically, and possibly creates anxiety among the investors about about where we are. Yes.
Chloe Lannert: the way to get around that, if you did still want to call it a seed is we're being very judicious about capital. We we don't think we're gonna need to raise more capital for another 3 years. You can get around the initial impression of how you're going to use that money. But in general yes, I think so versus we need a big pre seat
Chloe Lannert: as found. We're actually
Chloe Lannert: in many ways actually motivated or incentivized to say we are raising this much as this seed as pre see round now, and don't let the investor decide what type of
Chloe Lannert: sure I mean, that's why, I put you in a box anyways. And
Chloe Lannert: so yeah, most founders are sticking on, save for the initial checks. Once you're raising a pretty sizable round of probably 3 million or more. You get lawyers involved. You do a price round
Chloe Lannert: last time. The issue
Chloe Lannert: shakes are like this siren song. They're so easy they're so convenient. Don't stay on them too.
Chloe Lannert: We have seen many, many tap tables who are screwed. Now all of you are very smart. You can use free tools and our calculators, or whatever to model out the dilution. I'm not that worried that you're gonna wake up one day and realize, oh, my gosh! I've sold so much more of my company than I expect. You're smart people.
Chloe Lannert: What you don't see is that the valuation caps force the next round to be higher.
Chloe Lannert: A investor in Csc. Your precede investors are not excited about you converting
Chloe Lannert: right? So if you raise it, 20 or a 10 million dollar precede. If your seed is at a 10 million dollar valuation that is not good for your precede investors, they are not happy
Chloe Lannert: because they give you money. Then 2 years pass. And now you're at the same evaluation.
Chloe Lannert: That is not right, and people stack Val caps on top of 1012, 15, that is, pushing up your eventual that makes the next round harder. Right? So this is, it's not just a like optics thing. It is a literal. Okay. Now we expect more from you.
Chloe Lannert: People do not factor that in our sense.
Chloe Lannert: I there are companies I'm part of that have signed seats at 30 different valuations, single company.
Chloe Lannert: It happens, everything I know it probably sounds like
Chloe Lannert: because they're expensive, and you have to pay your Vc. Lawyer fees, which feels egregious but it is probably worth. Also, if you are paying your Vc. Lawyer fees.
Chloe Lannert: tell them I will pay them up to this point, but not phone.
Chloe Lannert: or else Wilson sincerely will take one of your arms and rip it out of your throat.
Chloe Lannert: Sorry, most. There are many other law firms who have been exactly the same. Okay, see fundraising
Chloe Lannert: the orange line is the seed safe valuations today, and the gray bars are the number of companies raising seed rounds.
Chloe Lannert: One is going way up, the other is going way down.
Chloe Lannert: So the fact that the valuation is at all time highs
Chloe Lannert: is interesting, but not the full picture without the number of companies raising.
Chloe Lannert: What happened here is this, was above
Chloe Lannert: tons of rounds, valuations, and rounds shooting upwards today.
Chloe Lannert: This the Vcs. Will tell you. All agree is us being very judicious about the companies we invest in.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, we're willing to pay up for things we think that are worth it. But there are less founders needed funding.
Chloe Lannert: Of course the if you just look at the arr between these, like the company arr the median arr for a company that raised here versus the median arr for company basis today varies
Chloe Lannert: probably 2 to 2 to 3 times then.
Chloe Lannert: So the expectations have risen twice.
Chloe Lannert: It used to be that we would say, you have a million bucks in AR, you can probably start talking to a series. A
Chloe Lannert: series. Agencies are not looking at.
Chloe Lannert: If you're building in beating.
Chloe Lannert: How many of your other tasks?
Chloe Lannert: Not me cool.
Chloe Lannert: Let me go to the app.
Chloe Lannert: Hey? Awesome!
Chloe Lannert: Oh, correct!
Chloe Lannert: What is AI? What is that?
Chloe Lannert: So why is this going down?
Chloe Lannert: If you read on pitch books or other things like, maybe this looks much better than it does in our view. I think our view is more accurate because we can tell when A. C round is an actual new C round or bridges or extensions.
Chloe Lannert: So 45% of the rounds in c category this year, having bridges or extensions
Chloe Lannert: to people who've already raised 0.
Chloe Lannert: There's a ton of vcu time, attention, money, etc, that is going to keeping 3rd portfolio companies alive.
Chloe Lannert: I need to sign language.
Chloe Lannert: Great question
Chloe Lannert: bridge is around in the same name series, because we have the actual round documents. You can see this. It is for a valuation of either flat or just above the old valuation, and it is for less money in the round of product. So a typical way this might look, you raise a C round of 3 million bucks.
Chloe Lannert: 18 months later you go back to your Vcs. And you say, look, we can't reach a series a right now. We didn't get where we thought we're gonna go.
Chloe Lannert: Can you give us a little bit more money. You give us an extra 1 million bucks
Chloe Lannert: in a bridge, but it gives us a bridge round.
Chloe Lannert: That's a ton of Crm activities all over that
Chloe Lannert: right. And why are they asking? We have Vcs. Who tell us more than half of their portfolios come back and ask for a bridge.
Chloe Lannert: Obviously they can't fund all of those bridges they have to choose amongst their children.
Chloe Lannert: But even that choosing process there's a ton of original.
Chloe Lannert: Hmm!
Chloe Lannert: This is why, if you talk to repeat entrepreneurs, they will often say, Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's cool to be profitable, or whatever. Take the biggest advocate
Chloe Lannert: and just talking to a MoD. We're hearing about this.
Chloe Lannert: He was like, Yeah, man, if I was at right now I would take the absolute biggest. And then he's not.
Chloe Lannert: What's your. Have you seen anything in terms of like rolling rounds?
Chloe Lannert: We've got a few
Chloe Lannert: alumni who have just been accepting safes every couple of months for like a year and a half, and it's a strategy.
Chloe Lannert: it's a so if you do it on stage, it's probably if you do it on price.
Chloe Lannert: I would not take a tranche as a price found, because all you're doing then, is giving you giving the Vcs. Like more opportunities to evaluate you along the way. So you raise 3 million bucks, and they say we'll give you a million now, and a million a year and a million the year after you could raise a million on saves. Now build a little bit, go back up to market
Chloe Lannert: again. That's fine, but it just it puts a lot of pressure on getting everything right every time.
Chloe Lannert: So
Chloe Lannert: I'm not saying that is right. And I'm not saying that you shouldn't raise just what you need or raise up. All those are great options just that people are going to have.
Chloe Lannert: and partly why those numbers are so weird on the seaside is because everyone's in love with AI right now,
Chloe Lannert: valuations are 40 or 50% higher for AI companies
Chloe Lannert: typically speaking and around our data, and they get raised fast.
Chloe Lannert: Who wants to define what an AI applicant is.
Chloe Lannert: Think about something they can do.
Chloe Lannert: It has to use the word. It could be that they want you to build foundational models. It could be that they want you to build
Chloe Lannert: fine tuned models with their own data. It could be that if you call chats, you can see, they're cool with it that works.
Chloe Lannert: All investors have different definitions of what AI is
Chloe Lannert: which is annoying to you all because you're gonna run across that a lot, and it also kind of is annoying to them to be honest, because they are. One of the reasons that the round is trending down is because they are super uncertain about what is going to be defensible players.
Chloe Lannert: We we, the you know, crappy, exposed to like, look at all the startups that opening up until today. On that release.
Chloe Lannert: we see the kind of feel into this
Chloe Lannert: like I funded some years ago, and now
Chloe Lannert: they have business ones, and how recurring some revenues couple of
Chloe Lannert: they're they're they're trying to find their footing on what the New World looks like.
Chloe Lannert: Never. Some of them are not feeling great. Now
Chloe Lannert: series, a same thing series B, same more to you is how much of your business you're gonna sell.
Chloe Lannert: So it's 20% in a sea ground, 20% in a series of that's still the market.
Chloe Lannert: You're building something more hard tech physical products, probably a little higher.
Chloe Lannert: And then you sell less of your company as your company is.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: brings us to how often you're going to the Orange section. Here is the old Vc. Advice that was thrown around for a lot of time, which was, you're gonna fundraise every 18 to 24 months.
Chloe Lannert: And for a while it was very good advice, right? Lots of companies fundraising in that timeframe. Now it's out of date.
Chloe Lannert: So the median time between rounds from series A to series B is nearly a thousand minutes.
Chloe Lannert: So what does this mean? This is why, maybe the entrepreneurs like mine would say, raise what we can. Now.
Chloe Lannert: you don't know how long it's gonna be until you just
Chloe Lannert: unguaranty. Yeah. So this is more a factor of like, you can't raise more than a factor of like you choosing to wait both.
Chloe Lannert: Really, it's up to them right? Because, like
Chloe Lannert: intense is verified to whether or not you're comfortable. There's an airport
Chloe Lannert: people say people want to say, Oh, no, this is founders choosing to see chat. I think that's not true.
Chloe Lannert: You know what? Yeah, you'll see. Get the money now. So if I were a founder, that's what I would do. But again, or I would try to raise literally nothing. Never talk to these, which is a great way to do it. You want to do that.
Chloe Lannert: Of course, the Internet, you know how to live.
Chloe Lannert: So maybe figure out, address it.
Chloe Lannert: I think it's really hard with seed strapping to like we're gonna raise one round to be done.
Chloe Lannert: We hear a lot of companies trying it, and I think it's great for founders. It is immensely at odds with the current Vc. Model. So a lot of investors.
Chloe Lannert: I don't know how they justify it to themselves. It's not what they promised their lps
Chloe Lannert: when they raise the time
Chloe Lannert: they were like, we're gonna invest in a seat. And then we're gonna get marked up at you're gonna see all the beautiful TV that we have. And then you're gonna invest in our next one.
Chloe Lannert: They didn't say, we're gonna invest in this company. We're gonna wait 10 years and then hopefully tough.
Chloe Lannert: Maybe this is the New World, and you can find the right investment. There are some Vcs who would do that model in Dvc. And Utah comes to mind a couple other ones. It's not
Chloe Lannert: alright. So last part for your ownership.
Chloe Lannert: This is how much the founding team owns after the rest.
Chloe Lannert: This is the meeting, and it does very good.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, that's the correct view. So like, how does that look? Same- same data? But now with stakeholder groups, you the founding team, your employees investors in the round, the other investors that are in the nonprofit.
Chloe Lannert: So after your series a round the median amount of ownership that you? The founding team has across this is 20,000 companies I'm part of is 36%
Chloe Lannert: mirror refund.
Chloe Lannert: Is this new? Well, it's new as a district
Chloe Lannert: I mean the the trend, is it? Oh, is it new like? It's actually been getting slightly worse. But it's pretty pretty standard.
Chloe Lannert: I don't know there was this thing across Silicon Valley that you have to have 50% of your company after your series 8. I don't know where that came from. That's literally never gonna be valued.
Chloe Lannert: However, that doesn't mean investors have control. Right? So you and your employees against the investor side, basically, even after series a. When can your Vcs fire you? Is that for Series B.
Chloe Lannert: If they truly want to?
Chloe Lannert: Again debunking most of them, the vast majority of them do not want to fire, they invested into your business. You were there right. Obviously there are literature on their bloodthirsty, and all that kind of stuff. Most of them are. Most of them want to see you.
Chloe Lannert: But control does matter. And it's this is why we say track that additional time.
Chloe Lannert: I can see, some of you may be thinking, Well, yeah, equity wise. I've lost control, but one of my shares about like 10 to one
Chloe Lannert: is upper bird furniture.
Chloe Lannert: Good luck getting. At least it's quicker
Chloe Lannert: if you are Dario and Sam Almond or someone. Sure you can have super voting shows
Chloe Lannert: if you are competing for term seats
Chloe Lannert: very less than I think 3% of companies on Florida had super voting share costs.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: So it really comes down to less about the board seats.
Chloe Lannert: So typically, what will happen is the lead investor in each of these rounds will take a board seat. So if the board originally was, the 2 of you, both founders.
Chloe Lannert: and then 2 of you and the lead. You see
Chloe Lannert: 2 of you and 2 Vcs.
Chloe Lannert: 2 of you and previous years.
Chloe Lannert: Now oftentimes what will happen is, you will have independent board directors as well. That will come on. You get to choose those most of the time, but I mean look, it can happen to travision
Chloe Lannert: at Series D or E, it can happen.
Chloe Lannert: It doesn't happen very often. Yes, and then the control rights and those. This is why I made a joke about, but it is great to have a lawyer for these kind of things, because you want
Chloe Lannert: my last one would be CEO version.
Chloe Lannert: Obviously in the beginning it matters quite a lot whether or not the CEO is the CEO of a 1 founder company or a 4 Founder Company.
Chloe Lannert: but then over time, it narrows quite considerably.
Chloe Lannert: So talking between 6 to 10% after 4 or 5 rounds, that's the ownership.
Chloe Lannert: Hopefully, your company's worth a couple of 1 billion. By then
Chloe Lannert: we've got secondaries. I'll chase and specific types super easy. Right?
Chloe Lannert: What questions do you have any of this understand?
Chloe Lannert: Hiring? etc.
Chloe Lannert: because you haven't too cool to change oops
Chloe Lannert: doesn't have to change. You could be very, very vicious about who gets equity.
Chloe Lannert: Most people find that the initial 10% is not enough to
Chloe Lannert: grants to all of the employees. Right? This is the pool, every one of the employees. So the employee option at 21%. There are 1,600 of us
Chloe Lannert: and meeting them or less part of it.
Chloe Lannert: it's 20% over 2,000 people.
Chloe Lannert: All the grants get smaller and smaller over time, but you could do you could keep it flat if you want. We were very ambitious about it.
Chloe Lannert: say 20% on it able to leverage and pull back some of them.
Chloe Lannert: Sorry, say, like telegraph.
Chloe Lannert: Think I should have been.
Chloe Lannert: You're looking to talk to somebody.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, we're gonna talk about it.
Chloe Lannert: If you don't need to take it back in the event of your company getting sold, it will go back.
Chloe Lannert: So, in the event of an exit. Unused, unallocated option will typically go back to the
Chloe Lannert: not always. But in the majority of cases, sometimes. Vcs will last week.
Chloe Lannert: Yeah, we haven't talked about that cash out from the phone team like?
Chloe Lannert: From what I understand, we usually take some cash out like starting with something like that. What's the trend? How are things going?
Chloe Lannert: Yes, a cash option. Secondary sales.
Chloe Lannert: yes, it's happening it's again spoken about more than it happens actually to be. Frankly honest, and I wouldn't start asking for that at serious A
Chloe Lannert: but series B series C, totally. We do see some funders. If you have a hot round, you allocate a portion of that, and you actually sell secondaries to new investors, etc. Or, better yet, you and hopefully early employees, you get an option to. It doesn't have to be just the funds.
Chloe Lannert: I would recommend that if you are taking some money off the table you get the option for your employees to do so as well.
Chloe Lannert: Behavior, deep respect for the Congress to do that. And the second thing is.
Chloe Lannert: the bigger question is, would you be annoyed if your early investing sold.
Chloe Lannert: So a lot of the secondary behavior is like used to be very
Chloe Lannert: stigmatized like a red flag. If anyone was selling before late stage.
Chloe Lannert: Now you know that angel, those early Vcs. That they invested in your PC. And now it's series C.
Chloe Lannert: I think it's totally fair for both you and them to take something, not the whole position. Yeah.
Chloe Lannert: yeah, you should. I think the idea that you need to be ron and founders for the next 10 years is pretty safe.
Chloe Lannert: especially since it's taking 14 years.
Chloe Lannert: Don't get as many shots as this.
Chloe Lannert: Well, you talked about the option pool, but I thought some of this hiring stats might be useful.
Chloe Lannert: Founders like you are not hiring their 1st people very quickly. It's taking longer and longer right? So this is days from incorporation to the 1st time.
Chloe Lannert: which is the secondary.
Chloe Lannert: You're working just as founding teams for a lot longer than they used to. AI, yeah, so is that- is that actually.
Chloe Lannert: is that a correlation? Is there anything actually promable? That it is because of? AI,
Chloe Lannert: I think the change from 2022 to 2023. And again, this is when people were hired. So it's a little bit this has nothing to do, really with AI, and much more to do with founders like looking around going.
Chloe Lannert: I don't over count like they look at all the 2021. 0, that looks terrible. Yeah, right? For sure. That's happening. Now, I think that is dead.
Chloe Lannert: And the reason I say that is because it's not just the early stages all across. So it used to be that the average series, a company on cargo had 22 employees. Now, it's 15
Chloe Lannert: at the end of the year. That's probably gonna be more like 13 or 20.
Chloe Lannert: That's a massive change, right? And what do you do with Vc cash? Typically, you find favorable.
Chloe Lannert: It's the biggest use of these cash.
Chloe Lannert: Maybe that means that you could use
Chloe Lannert: distribution, etc. There's a lot of creative ways to use money. But back to the Ahmad idea.
Chloe Lannert: if we could raise a big round, but not touch it, having an event
Chloe Lannert: in case of a lady who pays. That's beautiful.
Chloe Lannert: That's optional very hard to look at
Chloe Lannert: millions of dollars and not use it for
Chloe Lannert: any other questions.
Chloe Lannert: Thank you so much.
Chloe Lannert: Dude. I can't.